Domain controller mode for Windows AD Event collection (OTel) (#6653)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: blog-collector/2026-05-05-otel.md

---

> title: Configure Domain Controller Mode for Windows AD Event collection (OpenTelemetry Collector)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Domain Controller Mode for Windows AD Events (OpenTelemetry Collector)
```

image: https://assets-www.sumologic.com/company-logos/_800x418_crop_center-center_82_none/SumoLogic_Preview_600x600.jpg?mtime=1617040082
keywords:
  - opentelemetry
  - collection
  - domain controller mode
hide_table_of_contents: true    
---

> This release introduces **Domain Controller Mode** support for Windows AD event collection in OpenTelemetry collectors using Custom YAML. [Learn more](/docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/remote-management/source-templates/customyaml/#step-2-configure-the-source-template).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're excited to introduce the **Domain Controller Mode** for Windows Active Directory (AD) event collection in OpenTelemetry Collectors. By setting `discover_domain_controllers: true` in your custom YAML configuration, the collector automatically discovers all domain controllers on the AD network, connects to each controller's event log, and begins monitoring events. [Learn more](/docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/install-collector/windows/#configure-domain-controller-mode-for-windows-ad-event-collection).
```
